HW 1 							Kiara Alvarez ksa698

1. Write down your algorithm to solve 4 automated cars come to an intersection at the same time. Who goes first?
 	To decide which car proceeds first the cars should communicate and create a random number generator of 1-4 assigning each car a number.
	The car with the lowest number accelerates and proceeds on its route whether straight ahead or some form of curvature. 
	Once car 1 has passed, or if 3 minutes have passed (car trouble), the next car with the lowest number can continue until 4 is reached; 
	if any numbers were skipped (due to car trouble) then the order of lowest to highest is repeated until all 4 cars are gone. 
 
2. Using your SSH client, TACC Portal user account credentials (i.e. username and password), connect to isp.tacc.utexas.edu. 
According the SSH banner information (i.e. messages that display when you first connect to a server through SSH), what is the web address for the TACC Usage Policies? 

	http://www.tacc.utexas.edu/user-services/usage-policies/ 
 
3. 
(a) What is the machine name of the Linux server you are logged into through SSH?  [Hint: server hostname]
	isp02.tacc.utexas.edu
(b) What command did you use to find that information?
	hostname
(c) What reference (i.e. website, book, or other) did you use to find that command?
	Given in class
 
4. 
(a) What is the IP address of Linux server you are logged into through SSH?
	129.114.60.11
(b) What command did you use to find that information?
 	hostname -i
5. 
(a) What is the hard disk size of the / mount, of the Linux server you are logged into through SSH?  [Hint: Another name for the / mount is the root filesystem]
	379M
(b) What command did you use to find that information?
 	id k_sabi48, and df -h (separately)
6. 
(a) What is the kernel version of the Linux server you are logged into through SSH?
	3.10.0-1062.1.1.el7.x86_64
(b) What command did you use to find that information?
	uname -r
7. 
(a) How long has the Linux server you are logged into through SSH been running?  [Hint: The amount of time the machine has been up?]
	 16:27:59 up 273 days,  5:53, 80 users,  load average: 3.46, 3.42, 3.35
	Based on the result above, the time is 273 days (as of 9/8/20)
(b) What command did you use to find that information?
 	uptime
8. 
(a) What does the man command do?
 	Man is the manual command tool which when followed by another command a page appears explaining the name and use of that specific command.
	Type: man ls. You would get the user command list of the ls command showing the name, synopsis, and description.
9. Name two (2) text editors you can use in the command line terminal in Linux.
	Nano, vi or vim
10. What does a software compiler do?
	It translates human readable code into a form that is readable to a computer or CPU, which is known as binary. 

